Proposed project: Build a hybrid recommender system for movies based on movie features, ratings and user's emotions. This engine will take user's ratings, favorite movies and emotions as input, then recommend movies that the user might want to watch at the current mood. A content-based recommender system can recommend movies based on the similarities between movies, but the limitation is that the result is not personalized towards the user. A user-based collaborative filtering recommender system can provide recommendations based on similar users' ratings. A hybrid system combining both methods would provide a more comprehensive recommendation list that most likely fits the user's taste. The hybrid system will be a 50-to-50 linear combination of the predictions of the content-based model and the collaborative ?lter. 
Quite often, people choose what movie to watch based on emotions. For instance, you might not want to recommend a horror movie to someone who is feeling very sad, instead a comedy or action movie may help cheer up. Therefore it is important to include emotion as a filtering criteria in this recommender system. However, to the best of my knowledge, there are no clear psychological rules linking emotion and movies (i.e. what kind of movie is a good choice given a emotional state). In this project, we can define some simple rules for the emotion filter. Six fundamental emotions (love, joy, surprise, anger, sadness, and fear) can be used to determine users' emotional states. Genres of movies can be used as the movie feature to build the emotion-movie rules. Then a emotion-based filtering can be used to improve the recommendation results.

Datasets: There are two MovieLens datasets that can be used to build the hybrid recommender system. The latest_small dataset contains 100,000 ratings and 1,300 tag applications applied to 9,000 movies by 700 users. The latest_large dataset contains 26,000,000 ratings and 750,000 tag applications applied to 45,000 movies by 270,000 users, which also includes tag genome data with 12 million relevance scores across 1,100 tags. In addition to the ratings, the MovieLens data contains genre information?and user applied tag, which is very useful for the content-based filtering. In this project, I plan to start with the latest_small dataset and then apply the algorithms to a much larger dataset. The movies in MovieLens dataset can be linked to the content information that is available from The Movie DB (TMDB). TMDB dataset contains movie metadata, keywords, links which can be used for content-based filtering.

I made two plots in this submission: a heat map showing user ratings for each movie in the latest_small dataset and a bar plot showing the counts of each movie genre in the TMDB dataset. The heat map shows that the rating density is good for collaborative filtering method although it is a sparse dataset. The bar plot suggests a broad range of genres so that we can define emotion-genre rules and use the rules for filtering. In addition, I have written the core code for collaborative filtering method. I am looking forward to continuing this project at TDI data science bootcamp, where I can learn more about data science and get this project better shaped.